# Dynamic web pages with JavaScript

## JS Intro Paragraph

From: [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)

JavaScript (JS) is a lightweight, interpreted, or just-in-time compiled programming language with first-class functions. While it is most well-known as the scripting language for Web pages, many non-browser environments also use it, such as Node.js, Apache CouchDB and Adobe Acrobat. JavaScript is a prototype-based, multi-paradigm, single-threaded, dynamic language, supporting object-oriented, imperative, and declarative (e.g. functional programming) styles.

### Resources

[JavaScript Guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide)

[JavaScript reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference)

## Introduction to JavaScript - basic output

[Introduction to JavaScript - basic output](https://code-maven.com/introduction-to-javascript)

We can distinguish 3 major parts of what we usually refer to as "JavaScript".

The language itself. This is fairly standard among the various environments, both in the various browsers and in the various server-side environments.
The DOM API - how the language can interact with the various parts of a web page while in the browser. While in this respect the various browsers are getting closer to each other they still differ. Several libraries, most prominently JQuery, is trying to provide a unified API.
The server API (or just API) provided by Node.js or one of the other server-side systems.

Any text editor can be used.

You can either embed the JavaScript code directly inside the HTML file, or you can put a line in the HTML file that will include the external JavaScript file. In most cases the latter is recommended, but for our first examples, in order to make the whole thing work in a single file, we'll embed the JavaScript code inside some HTML.

In order to do that we add the `<script>` opening and `</script> ` closing tags. Between the two we write our JavaScript code.

The very first thing we need to learn is how to interact with the JavaScript code running in the browse. There are a number of way JavaScript can display text for the user (output). The most simple one is by using the alert function:

This will show a pop-up in the browser with the text. (You can click on Try! that will open the specific script in a separate window.) The alert() function is actually rarely used, but it is an easy way to show the use of JavaScript.

`First line
<script>
 
document.write("<h1>Hello World</h1>");
 
</script>
Last line`  

In this example we have some text (First line), then the JavaScript code, and then some more text (Last line). The JavaScript code uses the document.write function to change the content of the page. It will embed the html snippet <h1>Hello World</h1> after the "First line", but before the "Last line".

Most of the web browsers provide what is called a "JavaScript console". It is an additional window which is normally not visible, where the browser can print out warnings and errors generated by the execution of the JavaScript code. (E.g. if there is a syntax error in the code.) The developer can also print information to this console using the console.log() call.

## JavaScript input with prompt and confirm


[JavaScript input with prompt and confirm](https://code-maven.com/javascript-input-with-prompt-and-confirm)

1.What are variables in JavaScript?

-the name of a storage location

2.What does it mean to declare a variable?

-when you specify a type and an identifier, but have not yet assigned a value to the variable

3.What is an “assignment” operator, and what does it do?

- assigns the value of its right-hand operand to a variable, a property, or an indexer element given by its left-hand operand.

4.What is information received from the user called?

- a prompt
